README.md, before:

# Dedicated L4D2 Server + Valheim Server
## With custom maps, 5 player coop and 5v5 versus
Building on some groundwork by [@Mustack](https://github.com/Mustack) , this project automated the creation of a L4D2 Dedicated server. With the 2020 pandemic we started playing more L4D2 and found documentation for setting up a dedicated server severely lacking/outdated. This project will setup a server with some select custom maps, 5 player coop and 5v5 versus. Modify `/srv/salt/top.sls` if you don't want every mod deployed.

### Setting up salt master
#### Note: You need a Salt Master to run this project. Recommended CentOS 7.
- Follow the procedures on the Saltstack page [Saltstack Package Repo](https://repo.saltstack.com/#rhel) make sure to select the correct tab for CentOS 7. This was only tested/ran on CentOS 7. 
- You definitely need `salt-master` and `salt-cloud`, you might need `salt-api` and `salt-ssh`
- Checkout the project files into their specific folders

### Spinning up a DigitalOcean droplet
- You need to set up ssh keys with digitalocean, as well as access keys. See [Digital Ocean Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/saltstack-infrastructure-configuring-salt-cloud-to-spin-up-digitalocean-resources)  for advice
- Add your missing values to `/etc/salt/cloud.providers.d/digitalocean.conf`

### Command to spin up a droplet (dev droplet)
`salt-cloud -P -m /etc/salt/cloud.maps.d/dev-environment.map -l debug`

### Deploying L4D2 server to minion
#### Note: If you spun up the DigitalOcean droplet with the code above, it's already a minion. Otherwise you're on your own. 
- You need the Steam Group ID when deploying the server (below). To get the value for your group, in the 'Edit group profile' the 'ID' is the group number you need for the server
- Clients need to subscribe to the workshop maps [Steam Workshop Collection](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2218692186) or they can't connect when using a custom map.
- Workshop files were too big for Github to be uploaded. They need to go into `/srv/salt/l4d2-mods/workshop` on the salt master. See [Google Drive with big files](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1a0FjSMaqX_FOQyrt26YtgmdzSO_SrCBg?usp=sharing)
- Same with missing_content.vpk, it needs to go into `/srv/salt/l4d2-mods/missing_content.vpk` on the salt master

### Deploy
#### Note: Ran on the salt master
##### Minimum to deploy
`salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "<steamgroup #>"}'`

Eg: `salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "12345678"}'`

##### Optionally, you can pass in server_mode and max_players as well
`salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "<steamgroup #>", "max_player_count": "<number of players>", "server_mode":"<coop|versus>"}'`

Eg: `salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "12345678", "max_player_count": "7", "server_mode":"coop"}'`

### Starting the server after deployed 
#### Note: Currently ran on the minion after sshing in as the steam user
`/home/steam/L4D2/srcds_run -console -game left4dead2`

### External Dependancies
#### Note: Fetched automatically or included
- [Sourcemod v1.10.0-r6499](https://www.sourcemod.net/)
- [Metamod v1.10.7-r971](https://www.sourcemm.net/)
- [L4dtoolz L4D2 Mod v1.0.0.9h](https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?t=93600)
- [Superversus L4D2 Mod](https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?p=830069?p=830069)

### Resources
- [How to setup a dedicated server on Debian/Ubuntu](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=895492473)
- [L4D2 Cvars](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/List_of_L4D2_Cvars)
- [Digital Ocean User Setup](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sudo-user-on-centos-quickstart)
- [Digital Ocean Salt Cloud Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/saltstack-infrastructure-configuring-salt-cloud-to-spin-up-digitalocean-resources)
- [SteamCMD](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD#Linux)
- [Original server config](https://www.dropbox.com/s/5i7kovj8fd2g6zv/Detailed%20Server%20Config.txt?dl=0)
- [Custom L4D2 Campaigns](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=625654184)


### TODO 
- Run the server as a service
- Salt doesn't seem to support SSH key file passwords

Commit message:

Elastic monitoring (#6)
* Update dev-environment.map

* Update dev-profiles.conf

* Update dev-profiles.conf

* Update dev-profiles.conf

* Create server-setup.sls

* Create elasticsearch.repo

* Update top.sls

* Delete elasticsearch.repo

* Update server-setup.sls

* Create kibana.yml.jinja

* Update server-setup.sls

* Update server-setup.sls

* Update kibana.yml.jinja

* Create filebeat.yml.jinja

* Create beats-setup.sls

* Update top.sls

* Update kibana.yml.jinja

* Create elasticsearch.yml.jinja

* Update filebeat.yml.jinja

* Update server-setup.sls

* Update server-setup.sls

* Update server-setup.sls

* Update server-setup.sls

* Update server-setup.sls

TODO, lower beats_writer user permissions...

* Update filebeat.yml.jinja

* Update elasticsearch.yml.jinja

* Update kibana.yml.jinja

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update beats-setup.sls

* Update README.md

* Update filebeat.yml.jinja

* Update beats-setup.sls

* Create heartbeat.yml

* Rename heartbeat.yml to heartbeat.yml.jinja

* Create metricbeat.yml.jinja

* Create parse_kill_count_pipeline

* Update README.md

* Added pipeline to filebeat config

* Changed pipeline name

Filebeat does a 'to_lower' operation on the pipeline name and breaks.

* Update server-setup.sls

Automate ingest pipeline deployment

* Update filebeat.yml.jinja

Automate ingest pipeline deployment, use this pipeline in filebeat config

* Update server-setup.sls

Fixed field mapping

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

Spell check

* Update server-setup.sls

* Add files via upload

* Update server-setup.sls

* Add files via upload

* Delete srv/salt/monitor-server/kibana_configs directory

* Update beats-setup.sls

README.md, after:

# Dedicated L4D2 Server + Valheim Server + Elasticstack Monitoring
## With custom maps, 5 player coop and 5v5 versus
Building on some groundwork by [@Mustack](https://github.com/Mustack) , this project automated the creation of a L4D2 Dedicated server. With the 2020 pandemic we started playing more L4D2 and found documentation for setting up a dedicated server severely lacking/outdated. This project will setup a server with some select custom maps, 5 player coop and 5v5 versus. Modify `/srv/salt/top.sls` if you don't want every mod deployed.

### Setting up salt master
#### Note: You need a Salt Master to run this project. Recommended CentOS 7.
- Follow the procedures on the Saltstack page [Saltstack Package Repo](https://repo.saltstack.com/#rhel) make sure to select the correct tab for CentOS 7. This was only tested/ran on CentOS 7. 
- You definitely need `salt-master` and `salt-cloud`, you might need `salt-api` and `salt-ssh`
- Checkout the project files into their specific folders

### Spinning up a DigitalOcean droplet
- You need to set up ssh keys with digitalocean, as well as access keys. See [Digital Ocean Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/saltstack-infrastructure-configuring-salt-cloud-to-spin-up-digitalocean-resources)  for advice
- Add your missing values to `/etc/salt/cloud.providers.d/digitalocean.conf`

### Command to spin up a droplet (dev droplet)
`salt-cloud -P -m /etc/salt/cloud.maps.d/dev-environment.map -l debug`

### Deploying L4D2 server to minion
#### Note: If you spun up the DigitalOcean droplet with the code above, it's already a minion. Otherwise you're on your own. 
- You need the Steam Group ID when deploying the server (below). To get the value for your group, in the 'Edit group profile' the 'ID' is the group number you need for the server
- Clients need to subscribe to the workshop maps [Steam Workshop Collection](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2218692186) or they can't connect when using a custom map.
- Workshop files were too big for Github to be uploaded. They need to go into `/srv/salt/l4d2-mods/workshop` on the salt master. See [Google Drive with big files](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1a0FjSMaqX_FOQyrt26YtgmdzSO_SrCBg?usp=sharing)
- Same with missing_content.vpk, it needs to go into `/srv/salt/l4d2-mods/missing_content.vpk` on the salt master

### Deploy
#### Note: Ran on the salt master
##### Minimum to deploy
`salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "<steamgroup #>"}'`

Eg: `salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "12345678"}'`

##### Optionally, you can pass in server_mode and max_players for L4D2 as well. For Elastic monitoring, it's recommended to provide a default password
`salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "<steamgroup #>", "max_player_count": "<number of players>", "server_mode":"<coop|versus>", "bootstrap_pass": "<password>"}'`

Eg: `salt '*' state.highstate pillar='{"steamgroup": "12345678", "max_player_count": "7", "server_mode":"coop", "bootstrap_pass": "Solarwinds123"}'`

### Starting the L4D2 server after deployed 
#### Note: Currently ran on the minion after sshing in as the steam user
`/home/steam/L4D2/srcds_run -console -game left4dead2 -gamestatsloggingtofile -condebug -developer -dev`

### Starting the Valheim server after deployed 
#### Note: Currently ran on the minion after sshing in as the steam user
TODO

### Kibana
#### Note: Kibana currently deploys with a self-signed cert
Kibana is deployed at `https://<monitoring_server_ip>:5601/` , you can log in with the user 'elastic' and the password you provided above.

Filebeat will be deployed to the L4D2 server, and the ingest pipeline will be set up automatically in Kibana/Elasticsearch to parse the incoming logs.

### External Dependancies
#### Note: Fetched automatically or included
- [Sourcemod v1.10.0-r6499](https://www.sourcemod.net/)
- [Metamod v1.10.7-r971](https://www.sourcemm.net/)
- [L4dtoolz L4D2 Mod v1.0.0.9h](https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?t=93600)
- [Superversus L4D2 Mod](https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?p=830069?p=830069)

### Resources
- [How to setup a dedicated server on Debian/Ubuntu](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=895492473)
- [L4D2 Cvars](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/List_of_L4D2_Cvars)
- [Digital Ocean User Setup](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-sudo-user-on-centos-quickstart)
- [Digital Ocean Salt Cloud Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/saltstack-infrastructure-configuring-salt-cloud-to-spin-up-digitalocean-resources)
- [SteamCMD](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD#Linux)
- [Original server config](https://www.dropbox.com/s/5i7kovj8fd2g6zv/Detailed%20Server%20Config.txt?dl=0)
- [Custom L4D2 Campaigns](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=625654184)


### TODO 
- Run the server as a service
- Salt doesn't seem to support SSH key file passwords
